# CISC3130-Lab-5
Repository for the Lab 5 Assignment for CISC3130. This project only has 2 .java files, but it has 4 csv files from spotifycharts.com and it has 1 output file showing the final report. 
The 4 csv files are for 4 weeks of September, making up an entire month's worth of data which will be the time period for my analysis. 
In the Lab5.java file, I first make an array of Scanners, 4 Scanners to be precise. Each for 1 of the data files. I create 3 ArrayList objects, one for songs, one for artists and one for number of streams. At first each of these ArrayLists will hvae 800 elements because its the top 200 for 4 weeks. 
I use a for loop to go through the array of scanners and a while loop to read through each file. Within the csv file, in each row the 2nd column is a song, the third is the artist and the fourth is the number of streams. So I extract those columns and add them to their ArrayLists, some song names have commas in them which makes it seem like there are more than 5 columns, to solve this I use a loop to get all the "columns" from the second all the way to the third to last column (which is what the real next column is, for artists). 
A lot of names and songs have " " quotation marks for some reason and others don't, I have if-statements to check if there are " " and then remove them. 
Once I extracted all the songs, names and number of streams, I exit the for loop and then remove all the duplicates in songs arraylist while removing the corresponding artists names from the artist arraylist. I also remove the corresponding element in the streams arraylist, but since the streams are different in each file for different songs, I combine the strings but put a ',' (comma) between them. 
After removing the duplicates, the size of the arraylist is 263. I use a for loop to check if a string has a comma in the streams arraylist, if it does then it splits the string by commas, converts each number to an int, adds all the ints, then divides them by the number of numbers added (basically computing the average number of streams over the month of September). The average is then converted back to a string and set in the arraylist by replacing the original string that had all the commas.
After the averages are all computed, a for loop sorts the songs arraylist in ascending alphabetical order. I used the bubble sort algorithm as opposed to the merge or quick sort because I don't think they'd make a significant difference for an array of only 263 elements, it also keeps the code simple. Every time 2 elements are swapped, the corresponding elements in the artists and streams arraylist are swapped. 
After this I create an instance of my custom Binary Search Tree class called SongTree.java. This class is simple, it has a node with 3 fields, song, artist and avgStreams. The Tree class itself only has 3 methods, find, insert and a displayTree method which prints the tree in ascending order to an output file using inorder traversal. 
I use a for loop in my Lab5.java class to go through the arraylists and at every element insert it into my custom BST object, the object is named playlist. I insert using playlist's insert method which takes 3 strings as arguments, song, name and streams, so back in the SongTree class in the insert method, it makes a node with those strings and using the song string for comparisons until it finds a spot to properly insert itself into the tree.
After all the elements were added to the tree, the playlist is complete and so is the task, so the last thing the progran does is print the entire playlist to an output file, the output file is titled "ArtistsSorted-Monthof092020.txt". 
